README.adoc, before:

= Asciidoctor Leanpub Converter

Very early stages to showing a converter written in Groovy using the experimental
asciidoctorj-1.6.0 branch


== Building

[source,bash]
----
git clone https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctorj.git -b asciidoctorj-1.6.0
cd asciidoctorj
vi gradle.properties
----

Change the version to `1.6.0-SNAPSHOT`. It is still set as `1.5.3-SNAPSHOT`, but let's avoid confusion with another
`asciidoctorj` development branch. Save your change, then do

[source,bash]
----
cd asciidoctorj-core
../gradlew -i build publishToMavenLocal
cd ../asciidoctorj-distribution
../gradlew -i build
----

Now you are ready to clone and build this

[source,bash]
----
cd ../../
git clone https://github.com/ysb33r/asciidoctor-leanpub-converter.git
cd asciidoctor-leanpub-converter/core
./gradlew build install
----

== Using your snapshot build

If you are using Asciidoctor plugin for Gradle then you should be able to do

[source,groovy]
----
buildscript {
    repositories {
        mavenLocal()
        jcenter()
    }

    dependencies {
        classpath 'org.asciidoctor:asciidoctor-gradle-plugin:1.5.2'
        classpath 'asciidoctor-leanpub:asciidoctor-leanpub-core:0.1-SNAPSHOT'
    }
}

apply plugin : 'org.asciidoctor.gradle.asciidoctor'

repositories {
    jcenter()
    mavenLocal()
}

asciidoctorj {
   version = '1.6.0-SNAPSHOT'
}

asciidoctor {
  backends 'leanpub'
}
----

If you want to try the command-line version of asciidoctorj, then you are in luck. You can run it from
 `asciidoctorj/asciidoctorj-distribution/build/install/asciidoctorj-distribution/bin/asciidoctorj`. All you have to do is
 pass the `--cp` command-line parameter and tell it where the leanpub-converter-core.jar is.

== Parts & Chapters

Level 0 heading becomes a Leanpub part and creates a new part file

```
= This becomes a part
```

Level 1 heading becomes a Leanpub chapter. In addition if it is annotated with `[chapter]` it creates a new chapter file.
At least one level 1 heading should be annotated with `[chapter]`.
When writing a multi-part book, ensure that level 1 headings that follow a level 0, are annotated wth '
`[chapter]`, otherwise they will disappear from the Leanpub output.


```
[chapter]
== This becomes a chapter
```

Level 1 heading annotated with `[preface]` becomes a Leanpub preface

```
[preface]
== This is a preface
```

Leanpub allows chapters to be added to a sample book. If you want chapters or a preface to be added to your sample book,
add `leanpub='sample'` metadata to the chapter or preface block

```
[preface,leanpub='sample']
== Preface

[chapter,leanpub='sample']
== Chapter
```
== Blocks

Poetry blocks are supported by adding a `poem` role to a verse block

```
[verse.poem]
....
Poem goes here
....
```

== Source code blocks with callouts

Leanpub does not support callputs in the way Asciidoctor does. Our solution, for when callouts are detected, is to
generate a source code listing with line numbers. THe associated *colist* block is then generated with corresponding
line numbers instead of the original callout numbers. The callouts are also removed from the source listing.

Currently it is possible to generate the *colist* block in one of three styles, which in themselves correspond to
Leanpub blocks. They are:

* *paragraph* (default)
* *aside*
* *discussion*

The specific style is set via the `leanpub-colist-style` attribute. Each *colist* item is preceded by a prefix of `Line`.
This can be changed by setting the `leanpub-colist-prefix` attribute.

== Cover page

Use `:front-cover-page: image:NameOfImage.png[]` to add a Leanpub cover. Currently no size checking is done, but a
PNG extension is required. See https://leanpub.com/help/manual#leanpub-auto-how-to-insert-cover-images--cover-pages(Leanpub docs)
for more detail on size requirements.

\

Commit message:

FIXED #15: Images done to best of my knowledge. Need to verify with Leanpub when online again

README.adoc, after:

= Asciidoctor Leanpub Converter

Very early stages to showing a converter written in Groovy using the experimental
asciidoctorj-1.6.0 branch


== Building

[source,bash]
----
git clone https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctorj.git -b asciidoctorj-1.6.0
cd asciidoctorj
vi gradle.properties
----

Change the version to `1.6.0-SNAPSHOT`. It is still set as `1.5.3-SNAPSHOT`, but let's avoid confusion with another
`asciidoctorj` development branch. Save your change, then do

[source,bash]
----
cd asciidoctorj-core
../gradlew -i build publishToMavenLocal
cd ../asciidoctorj-distribution
../gradlew -i build
----

Now you are ready to clone and build this

[source,bash]
----
cd ../../
git clone https://github.com/ysb33r/asciidoctor-leanpub-converter.git
cd asciidoctor-leanpub-converter/core
./gradlew build install
----

== Using your snapshot build

If you are using Asciidoctor plugin for Gradle then you should be able to do

[source,groovy]
----
buildscript {
    repositories {
        mavenLocal()
        jcenter()
    }

    dependencies {
        classpath 'org.asciidoctor:asciidoctor-gradle-plugin:1.5.2'
        classpath 'asciidoctor-leanpub:asciidoctor-leanpub-core:0.1-SNAPSHOT'
    }
}

apply plugin : 'org.asciidoctor.gradle.asciidoctor'

repositories {
    jcenter()
    mavenLocal()
}

asciidoctorj {
   version = '1.6.0-SNAPSHOT'
}

asciidoctor {
  backends 'leanpub'
}
----

If you want to try the command-line version of asciidoctorj, then you are in luck. You can run it from
 `asciidoctorj/asciidoctorj-distribution/build/install/asciidoctorj-distribution/bin/asciidoctorj`. All you have to do is
 pass the `--cp` command-line parameter and tell it where the leanpub-converter-core.jar is.

== Parts & Chapters

Level 0 heading becomes a Leanpub part and creates a new part file

```
= This becomes a part
```

Level 1 heading becomes a Leanpub chapter. In addition if it is annotated with `[chapter]` it creates a new chapter file.
At least one level 1 heading should be annotated with `[chapter]`.
When writing a multi-part book, ensure that level 1 headings that follow a level 0, are annotated wth '
`[chapter]`, otherwise they will disappear from the Leanpub output.


```
[chapter]
== This becomes a chapter
```

Level 1 heading annotated with `[preface]` becomes a Leanpub preface

```
[preface]
== This is a preface
```

Leanpub allows chapters to be added to a sample book. If you want chapters or a preface to be added to your sample book,
add `leanpub='sample'` metadata to the chapter or preface block

```
[preface,leanpub='sample']
== Preface

[chapter,leanpub='sample']
== Chapter
```
== Blocks

Poetry blocks are supported by adding a `poem` role to a verse block

```
[verse.poem]
....
Poem goes here
....
```

== Source code blocks with callouts

Leanpub does not support callputs in the way Asciidoctor does. Our solution, for when callouts are detected, is to
generate a source code listing with line numbers. THe associated *colist* block is then generated with corresponding
line numbers instead of the original callout numbers. The callouts are also removed from the source listing.

Currently it is possible to generate the *colist* block in one of three styles, which in themselves correspond to
Leanpub blocks. They are:

* *paragraph* (default)
* *aside*
* *discussion*

The specific style is set via the `leanpub-colist-style` attribute. Each *colist* item is preceded by a prefix of `Line`.
This can be changed by setting the `leanpub-colist-prefix` attribute.

== Images

No size checks are done on images, they are just copied to the `manuscript/images` folder. Remember that Leanpub prefers
300dpi images.  See (https://leanpub.com/help/manual#leanpub-auto-images-and-cover-pages)[Leanpub docs]. Also take note
that floating lists around images do not work in Leanpub. This converter will not prevent this from happening. It is up
to the author to take care of that.

The `:figure-caption!:` attribute is ignored - images are not numbered.

Most Asciidoctor image metadata is ignored in `image::sunset.jpg[Sunset,300,200,link="http://to/some.jpg"]`, none of the
alternate text, size or link be be converted. However `float` will be converted.


== Cover page

Use `:front-cover-page: image:NameOfImage.png[]` to add a Leanpub cover. Currently no size checking is done, but a
PNG extension is required. See https://leanpub.com/help/manual#leanpub-auto-how-to-insert-cover-images--cover-pages(Leanpub docs)
for more detail on size requirements.

\
