example/src/docs/asciidoc/leanpub.adoc, before:

= Publishing to Leanpub using Asciidoctor
:author: The Awesome Asciidoctor Team
:doctype: book
:front-cover-image: image:FrontPage_1950x2700_300dpi.png[]

[dedication]
== Dedication

This sample book is dedicated to all those people who have contributed to making the Asciidoctor toolchain so awesome.

[preface]
== Preface

Asciidoctor is a powerful authoring ecosystem. Leanpub is a wonderful empoweringm self-publishing platform.
We can combine the two to be even more awesome.

[[QuoteInPreface]]
[quote,Dan Allan]
____
What's interesting is that it opens up the door to using Leanpub purely as a publishing tool...in other words,
a typesetting + delivery tool. The power of Leanpub becomes our power.
____


= Part One

[partintro]
It is easy to author a multi-part book. Introductory text can be added to parts using the `[partintro]` block.

[chapter]
== Blocks

If you would have read from the beginning you would have already discovered the <<QuoteInPreface,first quote block used in the preface>>.
At the time of writing of standard blocks are supported with the exception of the following:

* `[example]`
* `[stem]`

Titles are supported on all blocks too.

.A literal block
....
Literal text in a block
is reproduced as is
....

.A sidebar
****
I do like the way sidebars are done.
Don't you think it look's great?
****

=== Verses & Poetry

References on verse supported.

```
[verse, Carl Sandburg, Fog]
____
The fog comes
on little cat feet
____
```

will lead to

[verse, Carl Sandburg, Fog]
____
The fog comes
on little cat feet
____

We even have special support for Leanpub's poetry block. Just use `[verse.poem]`

[verse.poem]
____
The fog comes
on little cat feet
____


=== Source Code

Source code is well supported, but the `source-highligher` attribute will be ignored as syntax highligting is
handled by Leanpub directly using `Pygments`.

[source,groovy]
----
documentBinder {

    setDocuments '/path/to/doc', new File('/path/to/other/doc')

    documents '/path/to/doc', new File(' / path / to / other / doc ')

    documents project.file('add/other/doc')

    documents { '/even/add/from/closure' }
}
----

Leanpub does not support callouts in source code, therefore the conversion process takes car of this by adding
 line numbers and adding a `colist` block with line number references.

.Source code with paragraph style
[source,groovy]
----
documentBinder {

    setDocuments '/path/to/doc', new File('/path/to/other/doc') // <1>

    documents '/path/to/doc', new File(' / path / to / other / doc ') // <2>

    documents project.file('add/other/doc')

    documents { '/even/add/from/closure' } // <3>
}
----
<1> Clear any existing document list, and replace with the given list. List can contain anything that `project.files`
     can convert to `File` objects.
<2> Append more documents to existing list
<3> Even closures can be used to allow for late evaluation of documents

'''

The `colist` layout can be controlled via controlled via two attributes:

* `leanpub-colist-style` : The default style is `paragraph`, but `aside` and `discussion` are valid styles too.
* `leanpub-colist-prefix` : BY default this is is *Line*, but if youw prefer something else, for instance because the
  book is another language then just override it.

:leanpub-colist-style: aside

.Source code with aside style
[source,groovy]
----
documentBinder {

    setDocuments '/path/to/doc', new File('/path/to/other/doc') // <1>

    documents '/path/to/doc', new File(' / path / to / other / doc ') // <2>

    documents project.file('add/other/doc')

    documents { '/even/add/from/closure' } // <3>
}
----
<1> Clear any existing document list, and replace with the given list. List can contain anything that `project.files`
     can convert to `File` objects.
<2> Append more documents to existing list
<3> Even closures can be used to allow for late evaluation of documents

:leanpub-colist-style: discussion

.Source code with discussion style
[source,groovy]
----
documentBinder {

    setDocuments '/path/to/doc', new File('/path/to/other/doc') // <1>

    documents '/path/to/doc', new File(' / path / to / other / doc ') // <2>

    documents project.file('add/other/doc')

    documents { '/even/add/from/closure' } // <3>
}
----
<1> Clear any existing document list, and replace with the given list. List can contain anything that `project.files`
     can convert to `File` objects.
<2> Append more documents to existing list
<3> Even closures can be used to allow for late evaluation of documents


[chapter]
== Tables

Asciidoctor tables are far more poerful than those in Leanpub. Although we attempt to to support as much as we can there
are some limitation which we cannot work around.  At this point the following Asciidoctor table features are fully
supported:

* Setting table width: It can be set per usual and the keywords `full` and `default` can also be used. Just be aware that
  the latter is not portable to other Asciidoctor backends.
* Column horizontal alignment
* Headers and footers: Horizontal grid lines will be inserted.
* Multi-line cells:  This will cause multiple Leanpub rows to be generated. It will also cause the automatic insertion of
horizontal grid lines.
* Embedded `|` characters:  Just ensure to use `{vbar}` in the Asciidoctor file.


=== Limitations in Tables

* Colspan:  If an Asciidoctor table has a colspan this will result in an empty column being generated, however at present
  this results in duplicated cells. See https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-leanpub-converter/issues/39[GH issue #39].
* Frame: Frame is ignored. Leanpub does not do vertical lines. The use of horizontal lines is determined by
  horizontal alignment as well as the presence of headers and footers.
* Grid: THe same as for Frame (above).
* Header column style: This will not do anything.
* Horizontal alignment: If alignment within a column is not consistent across cells, this will cause all rows to be
  separated with a line. This is the only way to get such alignment to work with Leanpub.
* Verse column style: This will be ignored.
* Vertical alignment: Not currently supported. We might implement a workaround in future, if there is a community
  requirement. See https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-leanpub-converter/issues/37[GH issue #37].
* Width: `narrow` table width is not supported and will produce a warning. The table will be generated with a `default`
  width. Leanpub does not support settign separate column widths either. A future version of the converter might add
  some formatting to compensate - see https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-leanpub-converter/issues/38[GH issue #38].

[chapter]
== Admonitions

All five standard admonitions will work.

WARNING: This is what a warning would look like

CAUTION: This is a caution

IMPORTANT: This is some important text

NOTE: Want to add a note? No, problem!

.Tip with title
TIP: That's right, you can have block titles on admonitions.

[chapter]
== Mathematical Equations

Only `latexmath` is supported. If you are targeting Leanpub it might be better to set `:stem: latexmath` at he beginning
or the document. Alternatively always precede the stem block with `[latexmath]` such as below.

[source,asciidoc]
----
.A latexmath block
[latexmath]
++++
C = \alpha + \beta Y^{\gamma} + \epsilon
++++
----

The above markup will render in Leanpub as:

.A latexmath block
[latexmath]
++++
C = \alpha + \beta Y^{\gamma} + \epsilon
++++

NOTE: The Leanpub converter will not call MathJax to process the content. It will pass the content unmodified to Leanpub.

[chapter]
== Diagramming

If the asciidoctor-diagramming-extension is used, the Ditaa is supported out of the box and a diagram such as below becomes
a trivial exercise.

.Generated by Ditaa
[ditaa]
....
                   +-------------+
                   | Asciidoctor |-------+
                   |   diagram   |       |
                   +-------------+       | PNG out
                       ^                 |
                       | ditaa in        |
                       |                 v
 +--------+   +--------+----+    /---------------\
 |        | --+ Asciidoctor +--> |               |
 |  Text  |   +-------------+    |   Beautiful   |
 |Document|   |   !magic!   |    |    Output     |
 |     {d}|   |             |    |               |
 +---+----+   +-------------+    \---------------/
....

At this point in time, we have not tested other diagramming tools yet, therefore feedback would be welcome!

= Reference Materials

[appendix]
== Example Backmatter Chapter

Use `[appendix]` on a chapter and it will be included as part of the Leanpub backmatter

[appendix]
== Table examples

A basic Asciidoctor table such as

[source,asciidoc]
----
include::table1.adoc[]
----

will render to

include::table1.adoc[]

A table can have have a header

include::table2.adoc[]

or a table can have a footer

include::table3.adoc[]

or both, of course.

include::table4.adoc[]

=== More examples of table rendering

[source,asciidoc]
----
include::table5.adoc[]
----

include::table5.adoc[]

'''

[source,asciidoc]
----
include::table6.adoc[]
----

include::table6.adoc[]

Commit message:

FIXED #49. Basic preamble support and improved dedication

example/src/docs/asciidoc/leanpub.adoc, after:

= Publishing to Leanpub using Asciidoctor
:author: The Awesome Asciidoctor Team
:doctype: book
:front-cover-image: image:FrontPage_1950x2700_300dpi.png[]

This example book has been created to show how Asciidoctor is capable of creating well-formatted Leanpub books.

NOTE: This also shows that a `preamble` is possible. It will be published as the very first section.
  It is formatted as for any normal block.

[dedication]
== Dedication

This sample book is dedicated to all those people who have contributed to making the Asciidoctor toolchain so awesome.

[preface]
== Preface

Asciidoctor is a powerful authoring ecosystem. Leanpub is a wonderful and empowering self-publishing platform.
We can combine the two to be even more awesome.

[[QuoteInPreface]]
[quote,Dan Allan]
____
What's interesting is that it opens up the door to using Leanpub purely as a publishing tool...in other words,
a typesetting + delivery tool. The power of Leanpub becomes our power.
____


= Part One

[partintro]
It is easy to author a multi-part book. Introductory text can be added to parts using the `[partintro]` block.

[chapter]
== Blocks

If you would have read from the beginning you would have already discovered the <<QuoteInPreface,first quote block used in the preface>>.
At the time of writing of standard blocks are supported with the exception of the following:

* `[example]`
* `[stem]`

Titles are supported on all blocks too.

.A literal block
....
Literal text in a block
is reproduced as is
....

.A sidebar
****
I do like the way sidebars are done.
Don't you think it look's great?
****

=== Verses & Poetry

References on verse supported.

```
[verse, Carl Sandburg, Fog]
____
The fog comes
on little cat feet
____
```

will lead to

[verse, Carl Sandburg, Fog]
____
The fog comes
on little cat feet
____

We even have special support for Leanpub's poetry block. Just use `[verse.poem]`

[verse.poem]
____
The fog comes
on little cat feet
____


=== Source Code

Source code is well supported, but the `source-highligher` attribute will be ignored as syntax highligting is
handled by Leanpub directly using `Pygments`.

[source,groovy]
----
documentBinder {

    setDocuments '/path/to/doc', new File('/path/to/other/doc')

    documents '/path/to/doc', new File(' / path / to / other / doc ')

    documents project.file('add/other/doc')

    documents { '/even/add/from/closure' }
}
----

Leanpub does not support callouts in source code, therefore the conversion process takes car of this by adding
 line numbers and adding a `colist` block with line number references.

.Source code with paragraph style
[source,groovy]
----
documentBinder {

    setDocuments '/path/to/doc', new File('/path/to/other/doc') // <1>

    documents '/path/to/doc', new File(' / path / to / other / doc ') // <2>

    documents project.file('add/other/doc')

    documents { '/even/add/from/closure' } // <3>
}
----
<1> Clear any existing document list, and replace with the given list. List can contain anything that `project.files`
     can convert to `File` objects.
<2> Append more documents to existing list
<3> Even closures can be used to allow for late evaluation of documents

'''

The `colist` layout can be controlled via controlled via two attributes:

* `leanpub-colist-style` : The default style is `paragraph`, but `aside` and `discussion` are valid styles too.
* `leanpub-colist-prefix` : BY default this is is *Line*, but if youw prefer something else, for instance because the
  book is another language then just override it.

:leanpub-colist-style: aside

.Source code with aside style
[source,groovy]
----
documentBinder {

    setDocuments '/path/to/doc', new File('/path/to/other/doc') // <1>

    documents '/path/to/doc', new File(' / path / to / other / doc ') // <2>

    documents project.file('add/other/doc')

    documents { '/even/add/from/closure' } // <3>
}
----
<1> Clear any existing document list, and replace with the given list. List can contain anything that `project.files`
     can convert to `File` objects.
<2> Append more documents to existing list
<3> Even closures can be used to allow for late evaluation of documents

:leanpub-colist-style: discussion

.Source code with discussion style
[source,groovy]
----
documentBinder {

    setDocuments '/path/to/doc', new File('/path/to/other/doc') // <1>

    documents '/path/to/doc', new File(' / path / to / other / doc ') // <2>

    documents project.file('add/other/doc')

    documents { '/even/add/from/closure' } // <3>
}
----
<1> Clear any existing document list, and replace with the given list. List can contain anything that `project.files`
     can convert to `File` objects.
<2> Append more documents to existing list
<3> Even closures can be used to allow for late evaluation of documents


[chapter]
== Tables

Asciidoctor tables are far more poerful than those in Leanpub. Although we attempt to to support as much as we can there
are some limitation which we cannot work around.  At this point the following Asciidoctor table features are fully
supported:

* Setting table width: It can be set per usual and the keywords `full` and `default` can also be used. Just be aware that
  the latter is not portable to other Asciidoctor backends.
* Column horizontal alignment
* Headers and footers: Horizontal grid lines will be inserted.
* Multi-line cells:  This will cause multiple Leanpub rows to be generated. It will also cause the automatic insertion of
horizontal grid lines.
* Embedded `|` characters:  Just ensure to use `{vbar}` in the Asciidoctor file.


=== Limitations in Tables

* Colspan:  If an Asciidoctor table has a colspan this will result in an empty column being generated, however at present
  this results in duplicated cells. See https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-leanpub-converter/issues/39[GH issue #39].
* Frame: Frame is ignored. Leanpub does not do vertical lines. The use of horizontal lines is determined by
  horizontal alignment as well as the presence of headers and footers.
* Grid: THe same as for Frame (above).
* Header column style: This will not do anything.
* Horizontal alignment: If alignment within a column is not consistent across cells, this will cause all rows to be
  separated with a line. This is the only way to get such alignment to work with Leanpub.
* Verse column style: This will be ignored.
* Vertical alignment: Not currently supported. We might implement a workaround in future, if there is a community
  requirement. See https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-leanpub-converter/issues/37[GH issue #37].
* Width: `narrow` table width is not supported and will produce a warning. The table will be generated with a `default`
  width. Leanpub does not support settign separate column widths either. A future version of the converter might add
  some formatting to compensate - see https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-leanpub-converter/issues/38[GH issue #38].

[chapter]
== Admonitions

All five standard admonitions will work.

WARNING: This is what a warning would look like

CAUTION: This is a caution

IMPORTANT: This is some important text

NOTE: Want to add a note? No, problem!

.Tip with title
TIP: That's right, you can have block titles on admonitions.

[chapter]
== Mathematical Equations

Only `latexmath` is supported. If you are targeting Leanpub it might be better to set `:stem: latexmath` at he beginning
or the document. Alternatively always precede the stem block with `[latexmath]` such as below.

[source,asciidoc]
----
.A latexmath block
[latexmath]
++++
C = \alpha + \beta Y^{\gamma} + \epsilon
++++
----

The above markup will render in Leanpub as:

.A latexmath block
[latexmath]
++++
C = \alpha + \beta Y^{\gamma} + \epsilon
++++

NOTE: The Leanpub converter will not call MathJax to process the content. It will pass the content unmodified to Leanpub.

[chapter]
== Diagramming

If the asciidoctor-diagramming-extension is used, the Ditaa is supported out of the box and a diagram such as below becomes
a trivial exercise.

.Generated by Ditaa
[ditaa]
....
                   +-------------+
                   | Asciidoctor |-------+
                   |   diagram   |       |
                   +-------------+       | PNG out
                       ^                 |
                       | ditaa in        |
                       |                 v
 +--------+   +--------+----+    /---------------\
 |        | --+ Asciidoctor +--> |               |
 |  Text  |   +-------------+    |   Beautiful   |
 |Document|   |   !magic!   |    |    Output     |
 |     {d}|   |             |    |               |
 +---+----+   +-------------+    \---------------/
....

At this point in time, we have not tested other diagramming tools yet, therefore feedback would be welcome!

= Reference Materials

[appendix]
== Example Backmatter Chapter

Use `[appendix]` on a chapter and it will be included as part of the Leanpub backmatter

[appendix]
== Table examples

A basic Asciidoctor table such as

[source,asciidoc]
----
include::table1.adoc[]
----

will render to

include::table1.adoc[]

A table can have have a header

include::table2.adoc[]

or a table can have a footer

include::table3.adoc[]

or both, of course.

include::table4.adoc[]

=== More examples of table rendering

[source,asciidoc]
----
include::table5.adoc[]
----

include::table5.adoc[]

'''

[source,asciidoc]
----
include::table6.adoc[]
----

include::table6.adoc[]
