core/src/test/resources/test-documents/tables.adoc, before:

= Tables

////
Most of these test cases come straight from the Asciidoctor User Manual
////

[chapter]
== Simple Table

.Simple table with single text rows and no header
|===

| Cell in column 1, row 1 | Cell in column two, row 1

| Cell in column one, row 2 | Cell in column 2, row 2

| Cell in column 1, row three | Cell in column 2, row three

|===

.Simple table with single text rows and a header
[options="header"]
|===

| Header 1 | Header 2

| Cell in column 1, row 1 | Cell in column two, row 1

| Cell in column one, row 2 | Cell in column 2, row 2

| Cell in column 1, row three | Cell in column 2, row three

|===

.Simple table with single text rows and a footer
[options="footer"]
|===

| Cell in column 1, row 1 | Cell in column two, row 1

| Cell in column one, row 2 | Cell in column 2, row 2

| Cell in column 1, row three | Cell in column 2, row three

| Footer 1 | Footer 2

|===

.Simple table with single text rows and a header and footer
[options="header,footer"]
|===

| Header 1 | Header 2

| Cell in column 1, row 1 | Cell in column two, row 1

| Cell in column one, row 2 | Cell in column 2, row 2

| Cell in column 1, row three | Cell in column 2, row three

| Footer 1 | Footer 2

|===



[chapter]
== Columns on consecutive lines

.Columns on consecutive lines
[cols="3*"]
|===
|Cell in column 1, row 1
|Cell in column 2, row 1
|Cell in column 3, row 1

|Cell in column 1, row 2
|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2
|===

[chapter]
== Text centered in columns

[cols="3*^"]
|===
|Cell in column 1, row 1
|Cell in column 2, row 1
|Cell in column 3, row 1

|Cell in column 1, row 2
|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2
|===

[chapter]
== Text right-aligned in columns

[cols="3*>"]
|===
|Cell in column 1, row 1
|Cell in column 2, row 1
|Cell in column 3, row 1

|Cell in column 1, row 2
|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2
|===

[chapter]
== Last column right-aligned

[cols="2*,>"]
|===
|Cell in column 1, row 1
|Cell in column 2, row 1
|Cell in column 3, row 1

|Cell in column 1, row 2
|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2
|===

// TODO: https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-leanpub-converter/issues/37
[chapter]
== Various vertical alignments

[cols=".<,.^,.>"]
|===
|Cell in column 1, row 1
|Cell in column 2, row 1
|Cell in column 3, row 1

|Cell in column 1, row 2
|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2
|===

// TODO: https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-leanpub-converter/issues/38
[chapter]
== Setting widths

[cols="1,2,6"]
|===
|Cell in column 1, row 1
|Cell in column 2, row 1
|Cell in column 3, row 1

|Cell in column 1, row 2
|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2
|===


[chapter]
== Columns that span

|===

|Cell in column 1, row 1|Cell in column 2, row 1|Cell in column 3, row 1

3*|Same cell content in columns 1, 2, and 3

|Cell in column 1, row 3
|Cell in column 2, row 3
|Cell in column 3, row 3

|===

[chapter]
== Columns with vbars

.This table also has a vbar
|===
|Cell in column 1, row 1
|Cell in column 2, row 1

|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2

|Cell in column 2, row 3 with {vbar} embedded
|Cell in column 3, row 3
|===

[chapter]
== Controlling overall column width

[width="65"]
|===
|Name of Column 1 |Name of Column 2 |Name of Column 3

|Cell in column 1, row 1
|Cell in column 2, row 1
|Cell in column 3, row 1

|Cell in column 1, row 2
|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2
|===

////
[chapter]
== Column Styles

[cols="3*"]
|===
a|Cell *in* column 1, row 1
e|Cell in column 2, row 1
h|Cell in column 3, row 1

l|Cell *in* column 1, row 2
m|Cell in column 2, row 2
s|Cell in column 3, row 2

v|Cell in column 1, row 2
|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2

|===

// TODO:
[chapter]
== Rowspan and Colspan

.Rowspan and colspan
|===

.2+,2*|Content in a single cell that spans rows 1 and 2 and cols 1 and 2
|Cell in column3, row 1

|Cell in colum 3, row 2

|Cell in column 1, row 3|Cell in column 2, row 3|Cell in column 3, row 3

|===

////

Commit message:

FIXED #26. FIXED #39. We have a good enough table implementation for a first release. Just needs a bit more documentation in the examples section

core/src/test/resources/test-documents/tables.adoc, after:

= Tables

////
Most of these test cases come straight from the Asciidoctor User Manual
////

[chapter]
== Simple Table

.Simple table with single text rows and no header
|===

| Cell in column 1, row 1 | Cell in column two, row 1

| Cell in column one, row 2 | Cell in column 2, row 2

| Cell in column 1, row three | Cell in column 2, row three

|===

.Simple table with single text rows and a header
[options="header"]
|===

| Header 1 | Header 2

| Cell in column 1, row 1 | Cell in column two, row 1

| Cell in column one, row 2 | Cell in column 2, row 2

| Cell in column 1, row three | Cell in column 2, row three

|===

.Simple table with single text rows and a footer
[options="footer"]
|===

| Cell in column 1, row 1 | Cell in column two, row 1

| Cell in column one, row 2 | Cell in column 2, row 2

| Cell in column 1, row three | Cell in column 2, row three

| Footer 1 | Footer 2

|===

.Simple table with single text rows and a header and footer
[options="header,footer"]
|===

| Header 1 | Header 2

| Cell in column 1, row 1 | Cell in column two, row 1

| Cell in column one, row 2 | Cell in column 2, row 2

| Cell in column 1, row three | Cell in column 2, row three

| Footer 1 | Footer 2

|===



[chapter]
== Columns on consecutive lines

.Columns on consecutive lines
[cols="3*"]
|===
|Cell in column 1, row 1
|Cell in column 2, row 1
|Cell in column 3, row 1

|Cell in column 1, row 2
|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2
|===

[chapter]
== Text centered in columns

[cols="3*^"]
|===
|Cell in column 1, row 1
|Cell in column 2, row 1
|Cell in column 3, row 1

|Cell in column 1, row 2
|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2
|===

[chapter]
== Text right-aligned in columns

[cols="3*>"]
|===
|Cell in column 1, row 1
|Cell in column 2, row 1
|Cell in column 3, row 1

|Cell in column 1, row 2
|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2
|===

[chapter]
== Last column right-aligned

[cols="2*,>"]
|===
|Cell in column 1, row 1
|Cell in column 2, row 1
|Cell in column 3, row 1

|Cell in column 1, row 2
|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2
|===

// TODO: https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-leanpub-converter/issues/37
[chapter]
== Various vertical alignments

[cols=".<,.^,.>"]
|===
|Cell in column 1, row 1
|Cell in column 2, row 1
|Cell in column 3, row 1

|Cell in column 1, row 2
|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2
|===

// TODO: https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-leanpub-converter/issues/38
[chapter]
== Setting widths

[cols="1,2,6"]
|===
|Cell in column 1, row 1
|Cell in column 2, row 1
|Cell in column 3, row 1

|Cell in column 1, row 2
|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2
|===


[chapter]
== Columns that span

|===
|A cell in column 1, row 1|A cell in column 2, row 1|A cell in column 3, row 1

3.+|Same cell content in columns 1, 2, and 3

|Cell in column 1, row 3|Cell in column 2, row 3|Cell in column 3, row 3
|===

[chapter]
== Columns with vbars

.This table also has a vbar
[cols="2*"]
|===
|Cell in column 1, row 1
|Cell in column 2, row 1

|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2

|Cell in column 2, row 3 with {vbar} embedded
|Cell in column 3, row 3
|===

[chapter]
== Controlling overall table width

.Setting overall width and use implicit header row
[width="65",cols="3*"]
|===
|Name of Column 1|Name of Column 2|Name of Column 3

|Cell in column 1, row 1
|Cell in column 2, row 1
|Cell in column 3, row 1

|Cell in column 1, row 2
|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2
|===

[chapter]
== Column Styles

.Column styles will multiple rows
[cols="3*"]
|===
a|Cell *in* column 1, row 1,
asciidoc
e|Cell in column 2, row 1,
emphasized
h|Cell in column 3, row 1,
header style

l|Cell *in* column 1, row 2,
literal
m|Cell in column 2, row 2,
monospaced
s|Cell in column 3, row 2,
bold

v|Cell in column 1, row 2,
verse
|Cell in column 2, row 2
|Cell in column 3, row 2
|===

////
[chapter]
== Rowspan and Colspan

.Rowspan and colspan
|===

.2+,2*|Content in a single cell that spans rows 1 and 2 and cols 1 and 2
|Cell in column3, row 1

|Cell in colum 3, row 2

|Cell in column 1, row 3|Cell in column 2, row 3|Cell in column 3, row 3
|===
////
